In 2013, Stardew Valley was a Steam Greenlight project that looked pleasant enough, but seemed unlikely to reach any more than a niche audience. Fast forward three years, and the game has sold more than a million copies within two months of launching. That's quite astonishing, but according to publisher Chucklefish Games, it's definitely true. A representative for the company confirmed with Polygon that 1,007,000 copies have sold on Steam. SteamSpy still has the game sitting around the 915k mark, but that info isn't up-to-the-minute accurate, as the website itself is always willing to remind us. For reference, Tom reported on March 10 that the game had sold 425,000 copies. It's obviously been very lucrative for creator Eric Barrone, but as he told Tom last month, he's unlikely to buy a Pacific Island and populate it with M&M factories. "I don't want it to affect my life in any way. My lifestyle isn't going to change. My career plans haven't changed. I love making games and I want to continue to make games. If anything, this just makes it so that I can relax and create games without there being a huge amount of pressure, you know?" Shaun Prescott is the Australian editor of PC Gamer. With over ten years experience covering the games industry, his work has appeared on GamesRadar+, TechRadar, The Guardian, PLAY Magazine, the Sydney Morning Herald, and more. Specific interests include indie games, obscure Metroidvanias, speedrunning, experimental games and FPSs. He thinks Lulu by Metallica and Lou Reed is an all-time classic that will receive its due critical reappraisal one day.  OpenAI unveils powerful, creepy new text-to-video generator that it calls 'a foundation for models that can understand and simulate the real world' For the five people in the world who thought Malenia was too easy, a new mod turns Elden Ring's toughest boss into a 4-phase marathon ordeal including cut attacks and dialogue How to clean your computer PC Gamer is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.  